I think the fundamental virtue that
forms the basis for all other virtues is
honesty and I really mean intellectual
honesty being honest with yourself being
honest with others being honest about
what you know what you don't know being
honest about what motivates you what you
feel being honest about why you're
saying something above and beyond being
honest in the particulars of what you're
saying
um just washing some videos from Zahira
as a hero to 69 another vegan youtuber
here and somebody who I I don't think I
have a whole lot in common with aside
from the fact that we're both vegan and
you know I had an emotional reaction to
some of this stuff she's saying she's
being really honest about some of the
things that I'm I'm reluctant to talk
about honestly in veganism there's uh
there's a pose that a lot of us slip
into of pretending that veganism is
something based entirely on compassion
and that we experience veganism in terms
of compassion when really this is a kind
of political mandate and a lot of what
we experience is negative is horror is
revulsion is anger is hatred and it's
hard to talk about that stuff it's hard
to talk about this stuff because you
know political discourse in the Western
world is based on keeping up a pretense
that what you're doing is detached and
merely in the public interest when I go
into a small vegan restaurant in
Victoria this happened to me recently
and there's somebody with a fur coat or
a leather coat draped over their chair
next to their little table
I've got to sit down at my table and eat
my vegan noodles looking at dismembered
corpse of an animal at the desk next to
me what I feel is not compassion and
it's not coming from compassion it's not
based on compassion and I could sit here
on YouTube and I could be dishonest with
you and try to relate what veganism is
in my life entirely in terms of an
ideology of compassion and I am very
familiar with that kind of thumb
doublespeak that kind of propaganda from
Buddhism from the politics of Asia you
can justify anything in terms of
compassion you justify war in terms of
compassion people do it all the time
it's not nice to admit what you feel and
I've got to say that feeling it's
because that one vegan restaurant that's
the one place where I don't want to deal
with that where I don't want to see a
leather jacket or a fur coat even though
the restaurant in principle is open to
everyone when I go to the library if I
see a fur coat or a leather coat at the
library I don't even think about it
because the library really is for
everyone but when I go to that one place
there was the sense of isn't this the
one place in the city that's identified
as vegan you know if you are a non vegan
you're gonna come in here couldn't you
leave your fur coat at home I was in a
small town in in China things change so
fast in China I don't even know if it's
a small town anymore I mean you know it
could have become a big city and also
its population could have collapsed
things changed fast in ten years in
China that town might not be recognized
one more that was in a small town in
China that had one vegetarian restaurant
I lived there for a while at that time I
was basically a refugee from Laos death
threats from the Lao government I left
with nothing but my backpack and I knew
the whole story of this family running
this one vegetarian restaurant it was it
was basically vegan because they were
very old-fashioned traditional Buddhist
vegetarians they didn't have eggs they
didn't have I don't think they had any
milk and you know it was a struggle for
them to run that restaurant obviously
they're making less money than they
would if they were selling meat
obviously there's a religious component
and an ethical component to it the woman
who ran the place had a really hard time
because she wanted to employ waitresses
who were themselves vegetarian she
couldn't find any she ended up hiring
these young women who were willing to be
vegetarian for a certain taste with all
these struggles and all of it took place
under the shadow of fear of repression
from the Chinese government the local
representatives of the communist
dictatorship were very concerned about
this restaurant they were concerned
about controlling any form of religious
symbol any form of Buddhism in that
region and they had been censored they
had to put up sort of a sign describing
it as a vegetable restaurant because
most of the symbols indicating
vegetarianism in Chinese traditional
words for vegetarian are associated with
Buddhism and the government refused to
let them have any kind of Buddhist
iconography whatsoever no matter how
bland and there was this Portuguese
tourists who came into that restaurant
every day while he was there visiting
that town and he forced them to let him
eat meat in their restaurant
and at first I think they did it because
they thought he'd only be there for like
a day or two days or something and then
the owner of the restaurant said to him
formally I'm sorry this isn't acceptable
because we can't allow you to eat meat
on our plates on the same plates that we
serve vegan food arm and the guy respond
to this by going out and buying a set of
plates and forks and knives and coming
back to that restaurant
and continuing to eat fried chicken
their french fries it wasn't he wasn't
even eating Chinese food let alone
vegetarian food
I was really tempted to to knock that
guy's teeth him I had a long
conversation with him in that restaurant
and you know he was just completely
oblivious to the harm he was doing and I
don't even mean the harm to the animals
in this case but the really grievous
offense he was causing to everyone in
that restaurant people who who ran up
people who work there and to customers
like me amaura obviously he spoke
English for the heavy Portuguese accent
baram's st. contemptuously oh I had to
buy my own plates because you know for
some superstitious reason they won't let
me eat that plate in that whole city
every other restaurant served meat
anywhere else you could have eaten pork
fried chicken whatever that was the one
place in the whole city set aside for
vegetarians and vegans and the people
running it were making sacrifices to do
that they were making less money or
struggling to make any money at all and
so on and you've got to come into that
place and and make a mockery of it
a large part of what we do and what we
feel and what we go through as vegans
has nothing to do with compassion and it
is dark and it is hateful and it's
politically inconvenient and I
appreciate seeing someone likes a hero
talk about this sorry so I'm probably
mispronouncing your name but anyway I
appreciate seeing her talking about this
stuff as honestly as she does you know
the flip side of that is this guy Tobias
who have been interacting with online
and a couple my videos recently if
responding him and he asked these sort
of theoretical questions of you know
well are we are we indulging and
fetishizing veganism are we making
veganism into a fetish where we
appreciate people only because they're
vegan were we're making veganism the
primary criterion or only criterion of
who we socialize with who we work with
who is those who I and my answer is no I
really disagree with Tobias on this this
aspect of his thinking because when I
meet someone else who really is vegan
not someone who's reduce that Aryan or
flexitarian not someone who is merely
[Music]
doing their part to try to eat less meat
not someone like Al Gore or Bill Clinton
who's kind of sort of vegan now and then
when it's convenient when you meet
someone who knows what it's like to go
hungry for just 24 hours because they
were on a bus trip that were in whatever
difficult circumstance and there was no
vegan food so they ate nothing that
little bit of suffering that's very
different from somebody who will be on
the same bus trip and say oh there are
no vegan options okay I'll just buy this
chocolate bar I'll just I'll just eat
this hotdog
they'll make whatever compromise for
their own convenience on on a shallow
level
as well as on a deep level I relate to
and I want to relate to the people who
have been through that suffering of
eating nothing rather than making the
compromise I can remember being at
formal academic conferences one that was
about Musial adji comes to mind another
one that was about Buddhism where there
was nothing vegetarian
everything had me so I either ate
nothing or I sat there with just a bowl
of white rice
well everyone around me was eating
whatever pork dead cows whatever there's
nothing it's nothing like compassion
it's radically unrelated to compassion
man I'm the guy sitting there at that
conference with just a bowl of white
rice and a glass of water
and I'm happy to do that and all you
other hypocrites are sitting at the
table eating your dead animals
veganism is a very effective solution to
a long list of problems but I've said on
this channel repeatedly in many ways it
reflects an ugly side of my character
and it draws on and involves ugly
confrontational aspects of human nature
that's why it's got a future
if veganism were just built on
compassion
I think it would come and go quick the
same way for just a few years everyone
seemed to care about you know starvation
in Haiti there was an earthquake in
Haiti for five minutes the whole world
cares about Haiti then it's over
that's compassion doesn't last when I
was a kid the whole world cared about
Ethiopia for how long a few months was
it even one year was it even two years
and then it's gone there were ugly
aspects to veganism aspects that involve
militancy intolerance
outrage sure even if it's a meaningless
symbolic sense of outrage like when I'm
in that restaurant I don't want to see
your leather coat I don't want to see
your fur coat there's a struggle to
determine what the culture of the
twenty-first century is going to be and
veganism is one ideology in that
struggle